# Transaction-Fraud-Identificaiton-Supervised-Machine-Learning
**Business Problem and the Purpose of the Project

Credit card transaction fraud occurs when the fraudster stoles the card or information of the card to make unauthorized purchases or obtain cash. The most common types of credit card transaction fraud are Card-not-present (CNP) fraud, account takeover fraud, and counterfeit and skimming fraud. Now the CNP fraud dominates due to the evolution of digital transactions. The direct losses caused by credit card transaction fraud are significant. According to the Merchant Risk Council, in 2020, the amount of credit card fraud in the US was around $11 billion. And the actual cost of this $11 billion was estimated to be $39.6 billion using the LexisNexis Fraud MultiplierTM. And according to Nilson Report, in 2027, the estimated gross card fraud will be 6.1 cents per $100 in total volume. The good news is that there are several fraud tools to reduce transaction fraud, such as the address verification service, card verification number, and fraud scoring model. This project aims to build fraud models using supervised machine learning algorithms to detect credit card transaction fraud.
**Methods of Solving the Problem

The original dataset contains 96,753 rows and 10 columns of credit card transaction records across the year 2006. Records have been labeled to indicate whether the transaction is fraudulent. To build our models, we first developed a Data Quality Report (DQR) to check the data quality and did data cleaning by removing and filling some data. Next, during the feature engineering step, we created 1,310 variables such as days since variables, frequency variables, amount variables, and velocity change variables. Next, we selected the top 20 variables using filter and wrapper combinedly (feature selection). Before experimenting with various non-linear models, we performed baseline modeling (logistic regression). After that, we trained and tuned the models with Single Decision Tree, Random Forest, Light Gradient Boosting Machine, Extreme Gradient Boosting, and Neural Network. We assessed model performance via fraud detection rate (FDR) on training, testing and out-of-time (OOT) data and chose the optimal model with the best performance. We also tried the Cascade model to improve the best model.
**Results

Finally, we got our best model, which is Neural Network with 15 variables and hidden layer sizes equal to (20,20). The training, testing and OOT FDR at 3% are 73.6%, 73.2% and 62.6%, respectively. The result indicates that our best model can eliminate 62.6% of the fraud by declining 3% of the transactions. The expected annual saving for credit card transaction fraud using this model is $1.27 million. Please see the Results section for a complete description of our best model's training, testing, and OOT data performance for more detailed information.
